What's up everyone? Welcome back with me
Nathan. In this video, I want to show
you how to use the memory bank feature
to make your AI coding agent more
efficient and have less errors. So, the
memory bank feature was introduced by
Klein, the AI coding extension, as a way
to make AI perform more effective and
efficient. The problem with AI coding
agents like client or cursor is that
they have memory loss. They will
eventually forget past conversations and
lose context because of their limited
context window. This means when you
start a session, you either have to
repeat explaining your project or the
agent has to analyze your code base to
regain context. To solve this memory
problem, client proposed the memory bank
feature. It stores structured files to
help the AI retain context across
multiple sessions. This way, you don't
have to keep explaining things. The
context window doesn't get filled up,
which reduces or even eliminates
hallucinations. Basically, memory bank
is a set of custom rules that instructs
your AI coder to maintain specific
markdown files as documentation. These
markdown files will record important
information about your project, such as
describing the project details, the
system architecture and technology stack
you use in the project, keeping track of
the tasks you're trying to do and any
other relevant information. When you
start a new session, the AI will look
into the memory bank files to understand
your project, so you don't have to
repeat explaining your project details.
The memory bank can also be updated when
specific milestones in your project is
achieved, so it will always be up to
date. In essence, memory bank will
maintain six files related to your
project. The first file is the project
brief, which is the foundation document
that shapes all other files. This file
creates a highlevel overview of what
you're building as well as core
requirements and goals. There is an
example added here, but usually a
project brief is much more detailed than
this. Next, you will have the product
context, which explains why the project
exists, describes the problems being
solved, and outlines how the product
should work. Then there's the active
context which lists the most frequently
updated files, contains current work
focus and recent changes, tracks active
decisions and considerations and stores
important patterns and learnings. After
that, there's the system patterns which
documents the system architecture,
records key technical decisions, listes
design patterns in use, and explains
component relationships. And then the
tech context lists technologies and
frameworks used, describes development
setup, notes technical constraints, and
records dependencies and tool
configurations. And finally, the
progress file tracks what works and
what's left to build. It also records
current status of features, list known
issues and limitations, and documents
the evolution of project decisions. When
needed, the AI can also create
additional files to organize other
relevant information such as complex
feature documentation, integration
specifications, API documentation,
testing strategies, and deployment
procedures. And that will be everything
you need to know about memory bank.
Next, let me show you how to create a
memory bank for existing projects, both
in client and cursor. Now, before we get
into the exciting part, please don't
forget to subscribe to my YouTube
channel. Just click on the subscribe
button down below and please help me
reach 100,000 subscribers by the end of
this year as it will mean a lot to me
making me feel more excited to create
useful videos just like this one. Okay,
so here I have client open in VS Code
and I have a web application project
created using Nex.js on the left side.
In this demo, we will try to create a
memory bank for this project. So the
first thing we need to do is to open the
client window and then click on the
scale icon on the bottom left corner
over here. This will open client rules
and workflow settings. In this settings,
you can create custom rules globally or
specific for the current workspace. We
will create one globally for now and
name this as memory-bang-les.
And then in this file, we need to add
the custom instructions provided by
client. So go back to client website and
scroll to the top over here and here's
the client memory bank custom
instructions. Now click the copy icon
and then paste it to the rules file and
then save this change. Next create a new
folder in your project folder and name
it as memory-bang.
This is where all memory bank files will
be created. Now we can ask client to
initialize the memory bank for us. So
here in the chat box just type
initialize memory bank and client will
do the job. Now one thing to note is
that you need to use a capable model
because client will scan your entire
project for creating the memory bank. So
top models like cloud set Gemini pro or
flash are probably recommended to
generate the memory bank correctly. Here
I'm using cloud for set. You can choose
any model equal to cloud sonet 3 or 4 to
do this. Okay, let's press enter now and
let client process the request for a
moment. And now it asks us to read the
files in our project. So we will just
allow it and then it will read a bunch
more files to get the project overview
and then after understanding the project
it will start creating the necessary
files in the memory bank folder. It will
follow the custom instructions we put in
client previously.
So let client finish this process. I
will skip a little to the end.
And here the request is done and client
reports that it has created the core
files. So let's open the memory bank
folder. Also keep in mind that you need
to review the generated files after
initialization and correct them if you
see any misunderstandings. Any wrong or
missing information put in the memory
bank will influence all future
interactions with the AI coding agent.
If you got wrong information in the
memory bank, it will severely limit the
AI ability to assist you. And that's how
you use the memory bank feature in
client. Now let's open a new session and
suppose I'm a new developer working on
this project. I can just ask client what
is this project about and then press
enter. And here we can see that client
wants to read the memory bank files in
order to fetch the project overview. As
we keep this memory bank file updated,
client will know when there is a
significant update completed in the
project and it will improve your
productivity with the project as well.
And here we can see that client responds
with the project overview, the tax stack
and the current status of the project
which will be very useful for people new
to this project.
Okay, now we will see how to create the
same memory bank feature in cursor. Here
I already have cursor with another
project of mine already open. So in
cursor the steps are quite similar.
First you need to create a custom
instruction telling cursor about the
memory bank and how to use it. You can
find the instructions for cursor in this
GitHub Giz. I will link this in the
description below. So this cursor
instruction is very similar to client
and we can copy this by clicking the row
button on the top right corner over here
and then select all the text with
command A or control A for Windows. Copy
this text and then go back to cursor and
open cursor settings on the top right
corner. Uh let me close the side windows
first and then open the rules tab on the
left side. Here you can add user rules
or project rules. User rules will be
applied globally while project rules is
specific for the currently open project.
I will set the memory bank as user rules
here. So let's create a new one and then
paste the rules we copied before and
then save this change. With the rules
set, we can close the settings window
and go back to the main cursor
interface. Here we can create a new
folder named memory-bang just like
before
and then ask cursor to initialize the
memory bank for us. Make sure you're in
agent mode and use advanced models like
sonnet and then send the request to
cursor. Let cursor work for a moment. It
will read the project files and then
after it gain an understanding of the
project, it will start creating the
memory bank files. This is pretty
similar to client before. So I will skip
a bit to when this generation is
finished.
Okay. So here we can see that cursor
generated the same memory bank files
just like client but it added one more
file which is the cursor rules file. The
cursor rules file is a project specific
file that records the patterns and code
intelligence that will be followed by
cursor whenever it creates or edit files
in this project. Some example of
information included in this file
includes the naming convention for
files, classes and functions used in
this project. But in essence, the memory
bank files created here is the same as
in client. It will always be maintained
by cursor and it will be updated
automatically when there is a
significant change in the project. So
overall that's how you can initialize
and use memory bank feature in AI code
editors. The memory bank feature allows
you to create and store important
project details for your project so that
the AI can work more efficiently. Will
this increase token usage and cost more
money? Well, using memory bank will
increase token usage as the AI loads all
memory bank files at the beginning. But
because of the context provided by
memory bank, the AI coding agent will
have consistent understanding of your
project making it more productive and
have less errors. This increased
productivity may decrease your overall
interactions and usage of AI to achieve
the desired outcome. Which means memory
bank has the potential to save you money
in the long run. And if we go back to
client, you can see here that loading
all the memory bank files using cloud
for set costes about 7 cents. So for the
cost of 7 cents, you can load all the
relevant informations on your project
and make client more effective. In my
opinion, it's a very good trade-off, but
you need to try it out in your project
as it may produce a different result.
And that brings us to the end of this
tutorial. So, what do you think about
the memory bank feature? I encourage you
to try it out for yourself and let me
know about your experiences. I hope you
all enjoy today's video and get some
value out of it. Let me know your
thoughts in the comments below. I will
join the conversation and reply as often
as I can. If you're new to the channel,
Coen Nathan is a channel dedicated to
simplify complex stack topics so that
you can master them easily. Make sure
you subscribe if that's something you
find interesting. Make sure you like
this video, turn on the notification
bell, all the good stuff as it helps
this channel to grow. With that being
said, thanks again for watching until
the end. I hope you have a wonderful day
and I'll see you in other videos.
Bye-bye.
[Music]